build_instructions/README.md, before:

# Building the BurgerDisk

## BOM (bill of materials)
Mind that the links provided here might be dead by the time you read this, and
that most of them have options (number of pins, resistor values, etc) that you
should double-check before buying.

For the main board, you will need:
- the [main PCB](https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/BurgerDisk_Apple_II_Smartport_hard_drive_235e6080.html) or its [Gerber files](../../../releases/latest/)
- one [Arduino Nano with an Atmega328p processor](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006773519913.html)
- one [STK500 AVR ISP programmer](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006205386137.html) for uploading the firmware to the Arduino
- one [microSD module](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005008633757049.html)
- one [IDC20 connector, male, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005001400147026.html)
- one [470Ω resistor, 1/2W](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005004472952572.html)
- one [150Ω resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [330Ω resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [1kΩ resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [10kΩ resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [3mm LED, 3V, 20mA](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/1005003320296052.html)
- one [PC817 optocoupler (DIP-4)](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005004609787594.html)
- one [1N5818 diode](https://aliexpress.com/item/4000055728807.html)
- two [1N4448 diodes](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005008591345474.html)
- two [2-pin male headers, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006181780843.html)
- one [6-pin male header, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006181780843.html)
- one [6-pin cable, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/4001119232749.html)
- optionally, [one female DB19 connector](https://www.ebay.com/itm/165875193091) if you want daisy-chaining
- optionally, [two 15-pin female header](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006934014275.html) for easy Arduino removal

For connecting to the computer, you will need:
- an Apple 3.5 drive cable or equivalent, or make it yourself using
  - the [DB19 to IDC20 PCB](https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/BurgerDisk_DB19_to_IDC20_adapter_d6ce25bb.html)
    or its [Gerber files](../../../releases/latest)
  - an [IDC20 cable, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005003853804182.html), at least 50cm
  - a second [IDC20 connector, male, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005001400147026.html)
  - one [male DB19 connector](https://www.ebay.com/itm/257181325655)
  - two [M2 16mm screws](https://aliexpress.com/item/33043885403.html)
- The [Fujinet's DB19/IDC20 adapter](https://github.com/FujiNetWIFI/fujinet-hardware/tree/master/AppleII/DB-19M-Adapter-Male-Rev1)
can be used, provided that you solder the -12V and +12V pads between the IDC20
and the DB19, (and the DRV2 pad on the side if connecting to a IIgs):
![The Fujinet adapter, with required soldering highlighted in green](../build_instructions/pictures/fujinet-db19-adapter.png "The Fujinet adapter, with required soldering highlighted in green")

For the enclosure, you will need:
- the [enclosure's STL files](../enclosure/)
- four [M2 16mm screws](https://aliexpress.com/item/33043885403.html)
- four [M2 x 5 washers](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005007625630719.html)
- optionally, a [500 grams weight](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005007419997918.html)
  (and glue) to make the enclosure heavier and avoid thick-cables-induced levitation.
  (I found diving belt weights to have the best price-to-weight ratio but you can
  use whatever you want or have available).

## Printing the enclosure
You can use the .stl files provided in [this repository](../enclosure/).
It is suggested to print the enclosure first, as it will help you solder the
female DB19 of the daisy out port orthogonally to the PCB.
So far I print the enclosure at 15% infill, 0.20mm layer height. With my printer
I don't need support for the overhangs on the slots at the back, but your mileage
may vary.

## Assembly video
If you prefer visual instructions rather than text ones, I have uploaded [an
assembly video](https://makertube.net/w/vMwgwxywCR59GPpnG2MWhi)
([mirror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=73JgiqIu8tc)).

## Building the main PCB
**All elements are to be soldered on the top-side of the PCB**, the side with the
markings, except for the MicroSD card module.

### Daisy DB19
Align the female DB19 connector with the Daisy out pads on the PCB. Insert both into
the enclosure. Make sure the DB19 chassis is stuck between the wall and the
notches. Make sure the notches on the enclosure are inside the PCB mounting holes.

Realign the DB19 with the pads; pay close attention to the alignment, as the
DB19 will basically be un-desolderable with basic equipment. Solder one pin.

Remove the PCB and DB19 from the enclosure, and finish soldering the 18 remaining
pins (there are 10 on the top, 9 on the bottom in total).

### Resistors
Insert the 150Ω resistor in its spot, marked "150Ω" at the bottom of the PCB.

Insert the 330Ω resistor in its spot near the top-left of the PCB.

Insert the 470Ω resistor in its spot near the 330Ω resistor.

Insert the 10kΩ resistor in its spot at the left of the PCB.
Insert the 1kΩ resistor in its spot at the left of the PCB, under the 10kΩ one.

Solder them. Resistors are not polarized, so you can put them either way.

### Diodes
Insert the 1N5818 diode in its spot, marked "1N5818", near the Daisy out port.
Mind that diodes **are** polarized, so make sure the line on the PCB silkscreen and
the line on the diode are facing the same way.

Insert the two 1N4448 diodes in their spots, marked "1N4448". One is at the
bottom of the PCB, one is right over the IDC20 port. Mind the polarity line too.

Solder them.

### Optocoupler
Insert the PC817 optocoupler in its spot on the left of the PCB. The small round
mark on the PC817 is the anode, and goes to the hole with a square solder mask,
closest to the 470Ω resistor's left side.

### 2-pin header
Insert one 2-pin male headers in the "UART" spot. Solder it.

### Input IDC-20 connector
Insert the IDC-20 connector in its spot. Mind the notch position, it must be
towards the top of the PCB. Solder it.

### Arduino Nano
Solder the Nano's 6-pin header for programming on top of the Nano. The top of
the Nano is the side with the USB connector and the reset button.

This is not strictly necessary, but I like to put the Nano on a "socket" so that
it is easy to replace if necessary.

Assemble the Nano's two 15-pin connector with the 15-pin female connectors.
Insert these on the PCB, in the "NANO" spot, with the female headers towards
the PCB. 

Insert the Nano on top of its 15-pins connectors. Make sure the USB port is
facing left, over the "USB conn" marking on the PCB. Solder the 30 pins to the
Nano.

Reverse the PCB, and solder the female headers' 30 pins to the PCB.

You can [program the Arduino at this point](../firmware/README.md).

### MicroSD card module
**If you plan on using the enclosure**: Solder the 6-pin male header on the MicroSD
spot, at the center top of the PCB.

**If you don't plan on using the enclosure**: the MicroSD card module is the only
module to be soldered on the bottom side of the PCB. This requires straightening
the 6 pins of the module, with a small pair of pliers.

Position the MicroSD module in its spot from underneath the PCB. Make sure the
pin markings correspond (GND to GND, etc). There are two connectors on the PCB
for the MicroSD module, choose the connector so that the module sticks 5mm out
of the PCB.

Solder them.

### LED
**If you plan on using the enclosure**, connect the LED using about 15 cm of wire.
Otherwise you can connect the LED directly on the PCB.

You have options there:
- direct connection to the PCB
- solder a 2-pin header on the PCB, and use Dupont connectors
- solder wires to the LED and to the PCB

Mind that there is a [bug in Fritzing](https://github.com/fritzing/fritzing-app/issues/4295)
that makes the LED solder pads inverted:
contrary to the standard, the square one is *not* the cathode. The cathode
(short leg of the LED, on the side where there is a small flat on the LED's body)
must be connected to the "-" side of the LED connector, where the flat is noted
on the PCB's silkscreen. The LED's anode goes on the other side, identified "+",
in the square solder pad.

## The main connection cable
Because of its daisy-chaining capabilities, the cable to plug BurgerDisk to the
Apple II is more complicated than most DB19-to-IDC20 adapters.

The correct DB19-to-IDC20 adapter for this project is provided in this
repository.

It replicates the wiring of the **Apple 3.5 drive cable**, so using such a cable
from a broken floppy drive is also an option. I suppose, but did not verify, that
it would also work with a Unidisk cable. The necessary wiring is as follows:

```
Male DB19, seen from front:

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10
 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19

Female IDC20, seen from front, ==== is the connector's notch:

20  18  16  14  12  10  8  6  4  2
19  17  15  13  11  9   7  5  3  1
                ====

Wiring:

DB19 pin      IDC20 pin      line
1             1              GND
2             3              GND
3             5              GND
4             7              EN35
5             9              -12V
6             11             +5V
7             13             +12V
8             15             +12V
9             17             DRV2
10            20             WRPROT
11            2              PH0
12            4              PH1
13            6              PH2
14            8              PH3
15            10             WREQ
16            12             HDSEL
17            14             DRV1
18            16             RDDATA
19            18             WRDATA
```

This is the wiring provided by the DB19-to-IDC20 adapter in this repository.

### Assembling the adapter-based cable
Align the male DB19 connector with the pads on the adapter PCB. Pay attention
to the alignment, as the DB19 connector will basically be un-desolderable.
Solder it.

Insert the IDC-20 connector in the adapter PCB. It must on the top-side of the
PCB, where the IDC-20 is outlined on the silkscreen. Pay attention to the notch
position, which should be towards the DB19 connector. Solder it.

## Assembling in the enclosure
Put the PCB back in the enclosure's bottom, making sure the enclosure notches
are in the PCB mounting holes and the daisy DB19 connector's chassis sits
between the enclosure wall and notches.

Screw the MicroSD module, face up, at the front of the enclosure's bottom; then
connect it to the PCB using the 6-pin cable. **Mind which way you connect!** the
6-pin cable will have to make a 180°, as when looking from the front, GND is on
the **left** on the PCB, while it is on the **right** on the microSD module.

Plug the main input cable in, and route it out of the enclosure via its dedicated
hole in the back.

Glue a weight in the front of the bottom part if needed (epoxy works well on PLA
and lead). Make sure you leave room for the enclosure top's posts.
Put the enclosure's top on the bottom, making sure the notches are
aligned so that the PCB does not move around. Turn the enclosure on its back,
and screw it closed with four M2 x 16mm screws and four small washers. There may
be some stringing from the 3D printing in the bottom part of the holes, remove
it with a small screwdriver beforehand.

## Testing everything
Before plugging things in, it is good to check if everything is as expected.
This is not necessary if you're quite certain of your work.

Using a multimeter in "continuity" test mode,
- Verify ground continuity:
  - between the MicroSD module's GND and the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GD pin of the Nano
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pins of the Daisy
    out connector
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pin of the UART
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pin of the LED
- Verify +5V:
  - between the +5 pin of IDC20 connector (top row, 5th starting from left) and
    +5 of the Daisy Out DB19 (6th from the top, front side of the PCB)
  - plug your input cable, and verify continuity between its +5V pin (pin 6, 6th
    from the top when the DB19 is facing left, front side) and +5 pin of the
    Daisy DB19 (6th from the top, front side of the PCB)
  - between +5V pin of the Arduino and +5V of the MicroSD module
- Arduino:
  - between Arduino D12 and MicroSD MISO
  - between Arduino D11 and MicroSD MOSI
  - between Arduino D10 and MicroSD CS
  - between Arduino D9 and IIgs jumper bottom pin
  - between IIgs jumper top pin and IDC20 DR2
  - between Arduino D8 and Daisy Out P3 (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino D7 and IDC20 WR
  - between Arduino D6 and RD 1N4448 cathode (right side)
  - between Arduino D5 and IDC20 PH3
  - between Arduino D4 and IDC20 PH2
  - between Arduino D2 and IDC20 PH1
  - between Arduino TX and UART jumper top pin
  - between Arduino D13 and MicroSD SCK
  - between Arduino A0 and IDC20 DR1
  - between Arduino A1 and Daisy Out HSL (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino A2 and Daisy Out DR1 (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino A3 and Daisy Out DR2
  - between Arduino A4 and the LED's 150Ω (right side)
  - between Arduino A5 and WPRT 1N4448 cathode (left side)
- IDC20:
  - between DR2 and IIgs jumper top pin
  - between +12 pins and Daisy Out +12 pins
  - between -12 pin and Daisy Out -12 pin
  - between E35 and Daisy Out E35
  - between WPRT and Daisy Out WPT
  - between WPRT and WPRT 1N4448 anode (right side)
  - between RD and Daisy Out RD (under the PCB)
  - between RD and RD 1N4448 anode (left side)
  - between WRQ and Daisy Out WRQ (under the PCB)
- Input cable: 
  - between each matching pin on the DB19 and IDC20
  - connect the input cable to the IDC20, and check between GND pins
    and Daisy Out GND pins

Commit message:

Add 8-pin header for full size SD module

build_instructions/README.md, after:

# Building the BurgerDisk

## BOM (bill of materials)
Mind that the links provided here might be dead by the time you read this, and
that most of them have options (number of pins, resistor values, etc) that you
should double-check before buying.

For the main board, you will need:
- the [main PCB](https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/BurgerDisk_Apple_II_Smartport_hard_drive_235e6080.html) or its [Gerber files](../../../releases/latest/)
- one [Arduino Nano with an Atmega328p processor](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006773519913.html)
- one [STK500 AVR ISP programmer](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006205386137.html) for uploading the firmware to the Arduino
- one [IDC20 connector, male, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005001400147026.html)
- one [470Ω resistor, 1/2W](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005004472952572.html)
- one [150Ω resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [330Ω resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [1kΩ resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [10kΩ resistor, 1/4W](https://aliexpress.com/item/32952657927.html)
- one [3mm LED, 3V, 20mA](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/1005003320296052.html)
- one [PC817 optocoupler (DIP-4)](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005004609787594.html)
- one [1N5818 diode](https://aliexpress.com/item/4000055728807.html)
- two [1N4448 diodes](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005008591345474.html)
- two [2-pin male headers, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006181780843.html)
- one [microSD module ("TF")](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005008633757049.html) or
  one [full size SD module](https://fr.aliexpress.com/item/1005005377729431.html)
- one [6-pin male header, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006181780843.html) for MicroSD, or
  one [8-pin male header, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006181780843.html) for full size SD
- one [6-pin cable, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/4001119232749.html) for MicroSD, or
  one [8-pin cable, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/4001119232749.html) for full size SD
- optionally, [one female DB19 connector](https://www.ebay.com/itm/165875193091) if you want daisy-chaining
- optionally, [two 15-pin female header](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005006934014275.html) for easy Arduino removal

For connecting to the computer, you will need:
- an Apple 3.5 drive cable or equivalent, or make it yourself using
  - the [DB19 to IDC20 PCB](https://www.pcbway.com/project/shareproject/BurgerDisk_DB19_to_IDC20_adapter_d6ce25bb.html)
    or its [Gerber files](../../../releases/latest)
  - an [IDC20 cable, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005003853804182.html), at least 50cm
  - a second [IDC20 connector, male, 2.54mm pitch](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005001400147026.html)
  - one [male DB19 connector](https://www.ebay.com/itm/257181325655)
  - two [M2 16mm screws](https://aliexpress.com/item/33043885403.html)
- The [Fujinet's DB19/IDC20 adapter](https://github.com/FujiNetWIFI/fujinet-hardware/tree/master/AppleII/DB-19M-Adapter-Male-Rev1)
can be used, provided that you solder the -12V and +12V pads between the IDC20
and the DB19, (and the DRV2 pad on the side if connecting to a IIgs):
![The Fujinet adapter, with required soldering highlighted in green](../build_instructions/pictures/fujinet-db19-adapter.png "The Fujinet adapter, with required soldering highlighted in green")

For the enclosure, you will need:
- the [enclosure's STL files](../enclosure/)
- four [M2 16mm screws](https://aliexpress.com/item/33043885403.html)
- four [M2 x 5 washers](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005007625630719.html)
- optionally, a [500 grams weight](https://aliexpress.com/item/1005007419997918.html)
  (and glue) to make the enclosure heavier and avoid thick-cables-induced levitation.
  (I found diving belt weights to have the best price-to-weight ratio but you can
  use whatever you want or have available).

## Printing the enclosure
You can use the .stl files provided in [this repository](../enclosure/).
It is suggested to print the enclosure first, as it will help you solder the
female DB19 of the daisy out port orthogonally to the PCB.
So far I print the enclosure at 15% infill, 0.20mm layer height. With my printer
I don't need support for the overhangs on the slots at the back, but your mileage
may vary.

## Assembly video
If you prefer visual instructions rather than text ones, I have uploaded [an
assembly video](https://makertube.net/w/vMwgwxywCR59GPpnG2MWhi)
([mirror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=73JgiqIu8tc)).

## Building the main PCB
**All elements are to be soldered on the top-side of the PCB**, the side with the
markings, except for the MicroSD card module.

### Daisy DB19
Align the female DB19 connector with the Daisy out pads on the PCB. Insert both into
the enclosure. Make sure the DB19 chassis is stuck between the wall and the
notches. Make sure the notches on the enclosure are inside the PCB mounting holes.

Realign the DB19 with the pads; pay close attention to the alignment, as the
DB19 will basically be un-desolderable with basic equipment. Solder one pin.

Remove the PCB and DB19 from the enclosure, and finish soldering the 18 remaining
pins (there are 10 on the top, 9 on the bottom in total).

### Resistors
Insert the 150Ω resistor in its spot, marked "150Ω" at the bottom of the PCB.

Insert the 330Ω resistor in its spot near the top-left of the PCB.

Insert the 470Ω resistor in its spot near the 330Ω resistor.

Insert the 10kΩ resistor in its spot at the left of the PCB.
Insert the 1kΩ resistor in its spot at the left of the PCB, under the 10kΩ one.

Solder them. Resistors are not polarized, so you can put them either way.

### Diodes
Insert the 1N5818 diode in its spot, marked "1N5818", near the Daisy out port.
Mind that diodes **are** polarized, so make sure the line on the PCB silkscreen and
the line on the diode are facing the same way.

Insert the two 1N4448 diodes in their spots, marked "1N4448". One is at the
bottom of the PCB, one is right over the IDC20 port. Mind the polarity line too.

Solder them.

### Optocoupler
Insert the PC817 optocoupler in its spot on the left of the PCB. The small round
mark on the PC817 is the anode, and goes to the hole with a square solder mask,
closest to the 470Ω resistor's left side.

### 2-pin header
Insert one 2-pin male headers in the "UART" spot. Solder it.

### Input IDC-20 connector
Insert the IDC-20 connector in its spot. Mind the notch position, it must be
towards the top of the PCB. Solder it.

### Arduino Nano
Solder the Nano's 6-pin header for programming on top of the Nano. The top of
the Nano is the side with the USB connector and the reset button.

This is not strictly necessary, but I like to put the Nano on a "socket" so that
it is easy to replace if necessary.

Assemble the Nano's two 15-pin connector with the 15-pin female connectors.
Insert these on the PCB, in the "NANO" spot, with the female headers towards
the PCB. 

Insert the Nano on top of its 15-pins connectors. Make sure the USB port is
facing left, over the "USB conn" marking on the PCB. Solder the 30 pins to the
Nano.

Reverse the PCB, and solder the female headers' 30 pins to the PCB.

You can [program the Arduino at this point](../firmware/README.md).

### MicroSD card module
**If you plan on using the enclosure**: Solder the 6-pin male header on the MicroSD
spot, at the center top of the PCB.

**If you don't plan on using the enclosure**: the MicroSD card module is the only
module to be soldered on the bottom side of the PCB. This requires straightening
the 6 pins of the module, with a small pair of pliers.

Position the MicroSD module in its spot from underneath the PCB. Make sure the
pin markings correspond (GND to GND, etc). There are two connectors on the PCB
for the MicroSD module, choose the connector so that the module sticks 5mm out
of the PCB.

Solder them.

### LED
**If you plan on using the enclosure**, connect the LED using about 15 cm of wire.
Otherwise you can connect the LED directly on the PCB.

You have options there:
- direct connection to the PCB
- solder a 2-pin header on the PCB, and use Dupont connectors
- solder wires to the LED and to the PCB

Mind that there is a [bug in Fritzing](https://github.com/fritzing/fritzing-app/issues/4295)
that makes the LED solder pads inverted:
contrary to the standard, the square one is *not* the cathode. The cathode
(short leg of the LED, on the side where there is a small flat on the LED's body)
must be connected to the "-" side of the LED connector, where the flat is noted
on the PCB's silkscreen. The LED's anode goes on the other side, identified "+",
in the square solder pad.

## The main connection cable
Because of its daisy-chaining capabilities, the cable to plug BurgerDisk to the
Apple II is more complicated than most DB19-to-IDC20 adapters.

The correct DB19-to-IDC20 adapter for this project is provided in this
repository.

It replicates the wiring of the **Apple 3.5 drive cable**, so using such a cable
from a broken floppy drive is also an option. I suppose, but did not verify, that
it would also work with a Unidisk cable. The necessary wiring is as follows:

```
Male DB19, seen from front:

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10
 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19

Female IDC20, seen from front, ==== is the connector's notch:

20  18  16  14  12  10  8  6  4  2
19  17  15  13  11  9   7  5  3  1
                ====

Wiring:

DB19 pin      IDC20 pin      line
1             1              GND
2             3              GND
3             5              GND
4             7              EN35
5             9              -12V
6             11             +5V
7             13             +12V
8             15             +12V
9             17             DRV2
10            20             WRPROT
11            2              PH0
12            4              PH1
13            6              PH2
14            8              PH3
15            10             WREQ
16            12             HDSEL
17            14             DRV1
18            16             RDDATA
19            18             WRDATA
```

This is the wiring provided by the DB19-to-IDC20 adapter in this repository.

### Assembling the adapter-based cable
Align the male DB19 connector with the pads on the adapter PCB. Pay attention
to the alignment, as the DB19 connector will basically be un-desolderable.
Solder it.

Insert the IDC-20 connector in the adapter PCB. It must on the top-side of the
PCB, where the IDC-20 is outlined on the silkscreen. Pay attention to the notch
position, which should be towards the DB19 connector. Solder it.

## Assembling in the enclosure
Put the PCB back in the enclosure's bottom, making sure the enclosure notches
are in the PCB mounting holes and the daisy DB19 connector's chassis sits
between the enclosure wall and notches.

Screw the MicroSD module, face up, at the front of the enclosure's bottom; then
connect it to the PCB using the 6-pin cable. **Mind which way you connect!** the
6-pin cable will have to make a 180°, as when looking from the front, GND is on
the **left** on the PCB, while it is on the **right** on the microSD module.

Plug the main input cable in, and route it out of the enclosure via its dedicated
hole in the back.

Glue a weight in the front of the bottom part if needed (epoxy works well on PLA
and lead). Make sure you leave room for the enclosure top's posts.
Put the enclosure's top on the bottom, making sure the notches are
aligned so that the PCB does not move around. Turn the enclosure on its back,
and screw it closed with four M2 x 16mm screws and four small washers. There may
be some stringing from the 3D printing in the bottom part of the holes, remove
it with a small screwdriver beforehand.

## Testing everything
Before plugging things in, it is good to check if everything is as expected.
This is not necessary if you're quite certain of your work.

Using a multimeter in "continuity" test mode,
- Verify ground continuity:
  - between the MicroSD module's GND and the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GD pin of the Nano
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pins of the Daisy
    out connector
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pin of the UART
  - between the GND pins of the Daisy In IDC20 and the GND pin of the LED
- Verify +5V:
  - between the +5 pin of IDC20 connector (top row, 5th starting from left) and
    +5 of the Daisy Out DB19 (6th from the top, front side of the PCB)
  - plug your input cable, and verify continuity between its +5V pin (pin 6, 6th
    from the top when the DB19 is facing left, front side) and +5 pin of the
    Daisy DB19 (6th from the top, front side of the PCB)
  - between +5V pin of the Arduino and +5V of the MicroSD module
- Arduino:
  - between Arduino D12 and MicroSD MISO
  - between Arduino D11 and MicroSD MOSI
  - between Arduino D10 and MicroSD CS
  - between Arduino D9 and IIgs jumper bottom pin
  - between IIgs jumper top pin and IDC20 DR2
  - between Arduino D8 and Daisy Out P3 (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino D7 and IDC20 WR
  - between Arduino D6 and RD 1N4448 cathode (right side)
  - between Arduino D5 and IDC20 PH3
  - between Arduino D4 and IDC20 PH2
  - between Arduino D2 and IDC20 PH1
  - between Arduino TX and UART jumper top pin
  - between Arduino D13 and MicroSD SCK
  - between Arduino A0 and IDC20 DR1
  - between Arduino A1 and Daisy Out HSL (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino A2 and Daisy Out DR1 (under the PCB)
  - between Arduino A3 and Daisy Out DR2
  - between Arduino A4 and the LED's 150Ω (right side)
  - between Arduino A5 and WPRT 1N4448 cathode (left side)
- IDC20:
  - between DR2 and IIgs jumper top pin
  - between +12 pins and Daisy Out +12 pins
  - between -12 pin and Daisy Out -12 pin
  - between E35 and Daisy Out E35
  - between WPRT and Daisy Out WPT
  - between WPRT and WPRT 1N4448 anode (right side)
  - between RD and Daisy Out RD (under the PCB)
  - between RD and RD 1N4448 anode (left side)
  - between WRQ and Daisy Out WRQ (under the PCB)
- Input cable: 
  - between each matching pin on the DB19 and IDC20
  - connect the input cable to the IDC20, and check between GND pins
    and Daisy Out GND pins
